docs: document jwt hook claims (#2281)
ory/docs: docs/identities/session-to-jwt-cors.mdx

  ],
}
```

### Customizing JWT claims with webhooks

Sometimes, Jsonnet scripting is not enough to customize the JWT. A network call to a different service is necessary. A typical use
case is adding custom claims to the tokens based on a separate database or business logic.

This is possible by registering a webhook endpoint in the configuration. Before the token is issued to the client, Ory will call
your HTTPS endpoint with information about the client requesting the token.

:::note Be aware of the added request latency, and of the impact of this service not being available: authentication will fail for

> the user. :::

Reviewer: I also think that the note is not very explanatory. Instead it should be something like:

- Making a webhook call to another service adds rountrip latency both for network latency itself and then upstream service latency
- Adding this in the critical path means that this endpoint will probably take anywhere from 100ms to 10s longer depending on your specific environment / config
- We recommend creating the JWT yourself if you need to add a lot of dynamic claims
- The best option however is using distributed/aggregated claims: https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#AggregatedDistributedClaims

> the user. :::

Author: I think `make format` botched the `:::note` part... I adapted the content of the note. Thank you for the link, TIL.

  ],
}
```

### Customizing JWT claims with webhooks

Sometimes, Jsonnet scripting is not enough to customize the JWT. A network call to a different service is necessary. A typical use
case is adding custom claims to the tokens based on a separate database or business logic.

This is possible by registering a webhook endpoint in the configuration. Before the token is issued to the client, Ory will call
your HTTPS endpoint with information about the client requesting the token.

:::note

Be aware that this approach is easy but also has numerous disadvantages:

- Added request latency: if the third-party service takes 100 milliseconds to responsd to the request, that means that the

>   response time for the `/whoami` increased by that much

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  response time for the `/whoami` increases by that much
```

- If the third-party service is not available, authentication will fail for the user.

Thus, we recommend creating the JWT yourself if you need to add a lot of dynamic claims.

Alternatively and preferrably, you can use
[distributed/aggregated claims](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#AggregatedDistributedClaims).

:::

Your endpoint's response to the webhook will be used to customize the JWT token that Ory issues to the client.

Using webhooks is supported for all flows.

If your endpoint is gated behind authentication, ensure that the configuration contains the correct credentials. They will be sent
in the request when contacting the endpoint.

:::note

> The webhook is called before any other logic is executed. If the webhook execution fails -- for example if your endpoint is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The webhook is called before any other logic is executed. If the webhook execution fails, for example if your endpoint is
```

> unreachable or responds with an HTTP error code -- the token exchange will fail for the client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
unreachable or responds with an HTTP error code, the token exchange will fail for the client.
```

      }
    ],
    "tokenized": "eyJhbGciOiJFUzUxMiIsImtpZCI6ImJjN2Y3YWZjLTY3NDItNDI3Yy1iYjllLTE2NGZlMGY4YjZhNyIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhYWwiOiJhYWwxIiwiZXhwIjoxNjc1MjA5NjYwLCJleHRlcm5hbF9pZCI6ImV4dGVybmFsLWlkIiwiZm9vIjoiYmFyIiwiaWF0IjoxNjc1MjA5NjAwLCJpc3MiOiJodHRwOi8vbG9jYWxob3N0LyIsImp0aSI6IjYwZjdjOGU2LTIxYzMtNGExYi1hMTBhLTRjZjUyNmVhOWMzOCIsIm5iZiI6MTY3NTIwOTYwMCwic2NoZW1hX2lkIjoiZGVmYXVsdCIsInNlY29uZF9jbGFpbSI6MTY3NTIwOTY2MCwic2lkIjoiNDMyY2FmODYtYzFkOC00MDFjLTk3OGEtOGRhODkxMzNmNzhiIiwic3ViIjoiZXh0ZXJuYWwtaWQifQ.AXSrbfjtCvufuZEosTeHbS_oo01MiwdaB3ebS96pb9fO51QkC0rQHadY2hC3Ig4SP2x60NMl-Ff5mlEp4QTY9tPIATwFPbXFs-dBCKlZsLk7RA_s2fi4JXTQJU2WbxdHNGn_W3tL4IsTIQLPrrxXd301c72kDc4TVhLX99kIlasheBas"
  },
  "claims": {
    "exp": 1675209660,
    "iat": 1675209600,
    "iss": "http://localhost/",
    "jti": "eecab9dd-86fe-469a-8c04-ed7e103aea1e",
    "nbf": 1675209600,
    "sid": "432caf86-c1d8-401c-978a-8da89133f78b",
    "sub": "7458af86-c1d8-401c-978a-8da89133f78b"
  }
}
```

Fields prefixed with `request_` contain information from the client's request to the `/whoami` endpoint.

The HTTP headers present in the client request and that are in the allow-list (from the configuration field

> `clients.web_hook.header_allowlist`) will be forwarded to the webhook endpoint. In the above example, `X-Claim-Name` is such a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`clients.web_hook.header_allowlist`), will be forwarded to the webhook endpoint. In the above example, `X-Claim-Name` is such a
```

HTTP header.

#### Responding to the webhook

When handling the webhook in your endpoint, use the request payload to decide how Ory should proceed in the token exchange with
the client.

To accept the token exchange without modification, return a `204` or `200` HTTP status code without a response body.

To deny the token exchange, reply with a `403` HTTP status code.

> To keep the claims as is, return an empty body with a 204 status code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To accept the claims without modification, return an empty body with a 204 status code.
```

  ],
}
```

### Customizing JWT claims with webhooks

Sometimes, Jsonnet scripting is not enough to customize the JWT. A network call to a different service is necessary. A typical use
case is adding custom claims to the tokens based on a separate database or business logic.

This is possible by registering a webhook endpoint in the configuration. This is all done in a separate endpoint:
`/sessions/whoami-jwt/{templateName}`. Before the token is issued to the client, Ory will call your HTTPS endpoint with
information about the client requesting the token. Note that the template name is mandatory. This way, your application can at
runtime use different template names and thus third-party endpoints at will.

:::note

Be aware that this approach is easy but also has numerous disadvantages:

- Added request latency: if the third-party service takes 100 milliseconds to responsd to the request, that means that the
  response time for the `/sessions/whoami-jwt/{templateName}` increases by that much
- If the third-party service is not available, authentication will fail for the user.

Thus, we recommend creating the JWT yourself if you need to add a lot of dynamic claims.

> Alternatively and preferrably, you can use

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Alternatively and preferably, you can use
```
